THE POWER OF ATTRACTION IN 'ALI:
* Powerful Attractions.
* Shi'ism, the Religion of Love.
* Breaking down the Barriers.
* Constructive or Destructive?
* Love and Devotion to those Close to God.
* The Power of Love in Society.
* The Best Meats for Refining the Soul.
* Examples from the History of Islam.
* Love for 'Ali in the Qur'an and Sunnah.
* The Secret of 'Ali's Force of Attraction.
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
POWERFUL ATTRACTIONS
In the introduction to the first volume of The Seal of
the Prophets ( Khatim-e Payambaran), it is written concern￾ing the topic of calls to mankind:
"The 'calls' that have occurred among humanity have
not all been the same, and the rays of their effects have not
been of (only) one kind.
"Some calls and systems of thought are one-dimen￾sional, and proceed in one direction: when they appear. they
embrace a broad spectrum of people, millions of people be
come adherents, but then after their time comes to an end
they close shop and are entrusted to oblivion.
"Some are two-dimensional, their rays spread out in
two directions. While they embrace a broad spectrum of
people, and also progress for some time, their range is not
confined to the spatial dimension and also extend into the
temporal dimension.
"And some others progress in a multitude of dimen￾sions. Not only do we see them attract a broad range of peo￾ple from human societies and influence them and notice the
21
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
POLARIZATION AROUND THE CHARACTER OF IMAM 'ALI
effect of their influence on every continent, but we also see
that they embrace the temporal dimension, that is to say.
they are not confined to one time or era. They rule in all
their might century after century. Also, they take root in
the depths of the human spirit, and the very core of people's
hearts is under their authoritative control; they rule in the
profundity of the soul and take the reins of the emotions
into their hands. This kind of three-dimensional call is the
exclusivity of the chain of the prophets.
"What intellectual or philosophical schools of thought
can be found which, like the world's great religions, exert
their authority over hundreds of millions of people for thirty
centuries, or twenty centuries, or, at the minimum, fourteen
centuries, and sink deep into their innermost core."
Forces of attraction are also like this: sometimes one,
sometimes two, and sometimes three-dimensional.
'Ali's power of attraction was of the last kind. Not only
did it attract a broad range of human society, but it was
also not limited to one or two centuries; rather, it has con
tinued and extended throughout time. It is a fact that it
lights up the pages of the centuries and ages it has reached
the depth and profundity of hearts and souls, in such a way
that, after hundreds of years, when he is remembered and
his moral virtues are heard of, tears of longing are shed. and
the memory of his misfortunes is awakened to the extent
that even his enemies are affected and their tears flow. This
is the most powerful of attractive forces.
From here it can be understood that the link between
man and religion is not a material one, but rather of another
kind, the like of which link connects no other thing to the
spirit of mankind.
If 'Ali had had no divine colouring and had not been a
man of God, he would have been forgotten. The history
of man bears traces of many champions, champions of
speech, champions of knowledge or philosophy, champions
of power and authority and champions in the battle-field,
but all are forgotten by people, or else completely unknown.
22
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
THE POWER OF ATTRACTION IN 'ALI
But not only did `Ali not die with his being killed, he became
more alive. He spoke well when he said:
Those who amass wealth are dead even when they are
alive, but those with knowledge will remain as long as
the world remains. Their bodies may have disappeared,
but their images continue to exist in the hearts. ( Nahju-
'l-balaghah: Saying no.47 )
He said about his own character:
Tomorrow, you will see these days of mine and un￾known characteristics of mine will be revealed to you,
and after my place has been vacated and someone else
has occupied it you will know me." ( Nahju 'l-balaghah,
Sermon no. 149)
Iqbal wrote:
My, own age does not understand my deep meanings,
My Joseph is not for this market.
I despair of my old champions,
My Sinai burns for the sake of the Moses who is
coming.
Their sea is silent, like dew,
But my dew is storm-ridden, like the ocean.
My song is of another world than theirs:
This bell calls other traverllers to take the road.
Many a poet was born after his death.
He opened our eyes when his own were closed,
23
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
POLARIZATION AROUND THE CHARACTER OF IMAM 'ALI
And journeyed forth again front nothingness
Like roses blossoming over the earth of his grave.
No river will contain my Oman:
My flood requires whole seas to hold it.
Lightenings slumber within my soul.
I sweep over mountain and plain.
The fountain of Life lath been given me to drink,
I have been made an adapt of the mystery of Life.
.No one hath told the secret which I will tell
Or threaded a pearl of thought like mine
Heaven taught me this lore,
I cannot hide it from my comrades.1
In fact, 'Ali is like the laws of nature which remain un￾changed by time. He is a well-sprint; of munificence which
is never dry, but which rather increases day by day. In the
words of Kahlil Gibran (Jubran Khalil Jubran [1300 / 1883
-- 1349/1931] ), he was one of those personalities who was
born before his time.
24
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
SHI'ISM, THE RFLIGION OF LOVE
One of the greatest marks of distinction of Shi'isin
over other sects is that its-foundation and its bedrock is love.
Right from the time of the Prophet who laid the basis of this
sect there has been the whispering of love, when we hear
from the words of the Prophet the sentence:
Aliyyun wa shi'atuhu humu 'l-Fa'izun.
" 'Ali and his party (Shi'ah) will be the triumphant
ones. "
we see that there was a group around 'Ali who were devoted
to him, extremely fond of him and most affectionately
drawn towards him. Thus Shi'ism is the religion of love and
devotion: taking 'Ali as one's friend is the way of love. The
element of love has completely penetrated Shi`ism, and the
history of Shi'ism is joined in name with a chain of entirely
unknown people, devoted, full of love and self-sacrificing.
Although 'Ali administered the Divine punishments to
some, dealt with them with lashes and occasionally cut the
hand of someone off in accordance with what is laid down
by the Divine Law, they did not turn away from him and
their love for him did not diminish in the slightest. He
himself said:
If I strike the nose of a believer with this sword of mine
so that he will become my enemy, it will not create hos-
25
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
POLARIZATION AROUND THE CHARACTER OF IMAM 'ALI
tility and if I pour the (riches of the) whole world on
the head of a hypocrite so that he may like me, he will
never like me; because this has been decreed and laid
down by the tongue of the Prophet when he said: "O
'Ali, the believer will never be your enemy and the
hypocrite will never love you!" 3
'Ali is the standard and criterion for assaying human
nature and temperaments: he who has a sound nature and
a pure; temperament will never take offence at 'Ali, even
though his sword may come down on his head, while he who
has a diseased nature will never show any attachment to him,
even if he does him great favours, for 'Ali is nothing but the
embodiment of truth.
There was a friend of Amir al-mu'minin, a good and
believing man, who unfortunately fell into error, and who
had to be punished. Amir al-mu'minin cut off the fingers
of his right hand. The man took hold of his cut hand, with
the blood dripping from it, with his left hand, and went
away. Ibn al-Kawwa', a seditious Kharijite, wanted to take
advantage of this course of events for his own party and
against 'Ali, so he came up to the man with an air of utter
compassion and said: "Who cut your hand off?"
"The chief of the Prophet's successors", he said, "the
leader of the untainted ones at the Resurrection, the most
righteous among the believers, 'Ali ibn Abi Talib, the Imam
of right guidance, cutt off the fingers of my right hand . . .
the first to reach the Gardens of Felicity, the hero of the
brave, the avenger against the promoters of ignorance, the
giver of zakat . . . the leader on the right and perfect path,
the speaker of what is true and appropriate, the champion
of Mecca, the steadfast exceller." "Poor you!" said Ibn
al-Kawwa', "He cut off your hand, and you extol him
thus!"
"Why should I not extol him", he said, "now that his
friendship is mixed with flesh and blood? I swear by God that
he did not cut off my hand except with a right that God has
established." 4
26
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
THE POWER OF ATTRACTION IN 'ALI
This love and affection which we see in such a way
in the history of 'Ali and his companions, makes us turn
to the topic of love and its results.
* * * * 
27
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
THE ELEXIR OF LOVE
The Persian poets called love the "elexir" (iksir). The
alchemists believed that there existed a material in the world
which they called the "elexir"5 or "the philosopher's stone"
(kimiya) which could change one matter into another mat￾ter, and they searched after this for centuries. The poets
took over the use of this terminology and said that the
real "elexir" which has the power of transformation is love,
because it is love which can transurnute a substance. Love,
absolutely, is the "elexir" and has the properties of the
philosopher's stone, which changes one nature into another,
and people also arc different natures.
People are mines, like gold-mines and silver-mines.
It is love which makes the heart a heart, and if there is
no love, there is no heart, just clay and water.
Every heart that is not aflame is no heart:
A frozen heart is nothing but a handful of clay.
O God! Give me a breast that sets ablaze,
And in that breast a heart, and that heart consumed
with fire. 
6
28
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
THE POWER OF ATTRACTION IN 'ALI
One of the effects of love is power; love is the power
of glory, it makes the coward courageous.
A hen will keep its wings folded by its side as long as
it is alone. It will strut about quite peaceably, looking about
to find small worms to swallow. It will start at the slightest
noise, and not stand its ground even in front of the weakest
child. But when the same hen has chickens, love takes up
its dwelling at the centre of its being and its character com￾pletely changes. The wings which were folded by its side are
now lowered in a sign of preparation for defence, it assumes
an aggressive posture, even the sound of its clucking becomes
stronger and more courageous. Previously it fled at the possi￾bility of danger, but now it attacks where there is that possi￾bility, and it attacks bravely. This is love which displays the
frightened hen in the form of a valiant animal.
Love makes the heavy and lazy nimble and cunning,
and even makes the slow-witted astute. A boy and girl nei￾ther of whom, when they were single, found themselves
thinking about anything except what was directly related
to their own persons, see that they have become concerned
about the fate of another being for the first time as soon
as they fall in love and set up a family environment. The
radius of their wants extends; and when they become par￾ents, their spirit completely changes. That heavy and lazy
adolescent boy has now become active and mobile, and that
girl who used not to get out of her bedclothes even during
the day moves like lightning when site hears the cry of her
child in the cradle. What is this power which has so galvanised
the languor and weariness in these two young people? It is
nothing but love.
It is love which turns the miser into a benefactor,
and an impatient and intolerant person into someone with
endurance and tolerance. It is love which gave the selfish
bird which collected grain only with itself in mind and
looked only after itself', the form of a generous creature
which calls for its chickens when it finds a grain of corn;
or which, by some wonderful power, makes the mother,
29
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
POLARIZATION AROUND THE CHARACTER OF IMAM 'ALI
who was until yesterday a spoiled child who just ate and
slept and was irritable and impatient, persevering and for￾bearing when faced with hunger, lack of sleep and dishevel￾ment, which gives her the patience to endure the hardships
of motherhood.
The bringing into existence of tenderness in, and the
removal of heaviness and coarseness from, the spirit, or, put
in another way, the purification of the feelings, and also the
unification and singleness of purpose and concentration,
and the disappearance of distraction and dispersion are the
strengths and, in the end, power which is produced by the
coming together of all the resulting effects of love.
In the language of poetry and literature, when love is
spoken of, we encounter one effect more than any other,
and that is the power of love to bring inspiration, and its
prodigality.
The nightingale learnt its song by rite favour of the
rose, othenvise there would not have been
Any of this song and music fashioned from its beak.7
Although the favour of the rose is. if we attend only
to the words, a matter outside the existence of the night￾ingale, it is in fact nothing but the force of love itself.
Do you imagine that Majnun became deranged (majnun)
by himself?
It was the glance of Layla that transported him
among the stars. 8
Love awakens sleeping powers, and frees chained and
fettered forces. just like the splitting of the atom and the
freeing of atomic power. It tires with inspiration and builds
heroes - how many poets, philosophers and artists there have
been who were created by a strong and powerful love.
Love perfects the soul and brings out astounding latent
abilities. From the point of view of the powers of perception,
it inspires, and from the point of view of the emotions, it
strengthens the will and determination, and when it rises to
its highest aspect it brings miracles and supernatural events
30
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
THE POWER OF ATTRACTION IN 'Ali
into existence. It purifies the spirit from the tempers and
humours of the body; or, in other words, love is a cathartic,
it purges the base qualities arising from egotism, or from
coldness and lack of warmth, such as envy, avarice, cow￾ardice, laziness, conceited ness and self-admiration. It re￾moves grudges and malevolence, although it is possible
that deprivation of, and frustration in, love may produce,
in their own turn, complexes and aversions.
By love, bitternesses became sweet,
By love, pieces of copper became gold.9
In the spirit, the effect of love is in terms of its devel￾opment and thriving; in the body, in terms of melting and
decomposition. The effect of love in the body is the com
plete opposite of what is in the spirit. In the body love
is the cause of ruination, and the reason for pallor and
emaciation in the body, for indisposition and disorder in the
digestive and the nervous systems. Perhaps all the effects
which it has in the body are destructive; but in connection
with the spirit it is not so - it depends on the object of love
and how the person responds to that object. Leaving aside
its social effects, it is predominantly perfecting in the spirit
and the individual, because it produces strength, compassion,
serenity, singleness of purpose, and determination; it abol￾ishes weakness, meanness, annoyance, uncollectedness and
dullness. It removes the confusions which are called dassa
in the Qur'an (91:10), meaning adulterations of purity with
impurity, destroys deceit and purifies the cheat.
The spiritual way ruins the body,
And, after having ruined it, restores it to prosperity:
O happy the soul who, for love and ecstasy,
Gave up hearth and home. wealth and riches.
Ruined the house for the sake of the golden treasure,
And with that same treasure rebuilt it better;
Cut off the water and cleansed the river-bed.
Then caused drinking-water to flow in tire river-bed;
Cleft the skin and drew out the iron point-
31
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
POLARIZATION AROUND THE CHARACTER OF IMAM 'ALI
Then fresh skin grew over it.
The perfect ones who are aware of the secret of reality
Are in ecstasy. bewildered. intoxicated and deranged
with love.
Not bewildered in such wise that his back is towards
Him,
But so bewildered that (they are) drowned and in￾toxicated with the Beloved. 10
* * *
32
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
BREAKING DOWN THE BARRIERS
Love brings man out from egoism and self-love, irre￾spective of what kind of love it is - animal and sexual,
animal and parental, or human- and irrespective of what
qualities and excellences the loved-one has, whether bold
and valiant, artistic or wise, or whether her or she be in
possession of a fine morality, social graces or other special
attributes. Self-love is a limitation and a defensive barrier;
love completely breaks down this defensive barrier to other
than the self. Man is weak until he has gone outside his own
self, he is timid, avaricious, covetous, misanthropic, quick￾tempered, selfish and arrogant; his spirit gives out no spark
or brilliancy, it has no vivacity or animation, it is always cold
and cut off. However, as soon as he takes a step outside his
"self" and breaks down his defensive barriers, these ugly
habits and qualities are also destroyed.
Whoever's garment is torn by love
Is entirely cleansed ofcovetousness or blemish.
11
Self-love, in the sense of something which must be
eliminated, is not something which really exists. What we
mean is that it is not a real, existing fondness for himself
which man must do away with so that he can become liber￾ated from "self-love". It makes no sense for a human being
33
www.wofis.com - info@wofis.com
POLARIZATION AROUND THE CHARACTER OF IMAM 'ALI
to try not to like himself; esteem for oneself which we can
call "amour-propre" has not been mistakenly overlooked
so that we have to throw that out. The reform and perfecting
of man does not mean that, let us suppose, a series of extraneous matters in his existence are thought up and then
that these extraneous and detrimental things must be eliminated. In other words the reform of man does not lie in
reducing him, it lies in perfecting and adding to him. The
responsibility that creation has assigned to man's charge is
in the direction of the course of creation, that is, in perfection and growth, not in decrease and reduction.
The struggle with self-love is the struggle with the limitations of the self. This self must be expanded; this defensive
structure, which has been placed round the self and which
sees every other thing, apart from what is connected to
itself as a person or an individual, as foreign, "not me",
and alien to itself, must be broken down. The personality
must expand to take in every other human being, if not
the whole of the universe of creation. Thus the struggle with
self-love is the struggle with the limitations of the self; and
therefore self-love is nothing else but a limitation of the
conceptual and motivational process. Love turns man's
affections and drives towards what is outside his self, it
enlarges his existence and changes the focal point of his
being. For the same reason, love is a great moral and educative factor, on condition that it is well guided and is
correctly used.